


SUBMISSION: 70
TITLE: Parity games in pushdown systems with pebbles


----------------------- REVIEW 1 ---------------------
SUBMISSION: 70
TITLE: Parity games in pushdown systems with pebbles
AUTHORS: Mathieu Hilaire

----------- Overall evaluation -----------
The author considers parity games over configuration graphs of pushdown systems with pebbles. The name "with pebbles" is a bit confusing, at least to me. The model is the following: the pushdown system can store the current stack content in one of n registers (called pebbles), with the requirement that we can store our stack in the register number k (or clean the register number k) only if registers of number >k are empty. Moreover, in every moment it is possible to compare the current stack with the stack stored in any register. The maximal number of registers, n, is fixed.

It is shown that parity games over these configuration graphs are decidable, and that the complexity of this problem is nonelementary.

EVALUATION:

On the positive side: 
* This is a very natural model; it is good to know that it is decidable.
* The paper is well-written and easy to understand.

On the negative side:
* The result is quite standard, and a proof can be seen as an exercise for someone knowing the literature on higher-order pushdown automata. Indeed, it is known that higher-order pushdown automata can be extended by the following test operation: are the two topmost order-k stacks identical (this does not increase the expressive power, i.e., can be simulated using other operations, by storing additional data on the stack). This is written in the Carayol & Wöhrle FSTTCS 2003 paper, and a proof is given in Carayol's PhD thesis. Having this extension, the k-pebble pushdown automata can be easily implemented using order-k pushdown automata: to store something in register number k, we perform a push of order k. Then, the current stack is the same as the stack stored in register number k if and only if the two topmost order-k stacks are identical. (Actually, the proof in the paper under review goes via a similar line, but uses Muchnik's iteration instead of the mentioned version of
 higher-order pushdown automata.)
* I would expect more precise complexity results, which should be easy to derive by the aforementioned relation to higher-order pushdown automata. Namely, I suspect that solving parity games for pushdown systems with n pebbles is (n+1)-EXPTIME-complete. But this does not follow from the paper under review, neither for the lower bound nor for the upper bound.

Minor comments:
* Maybe the definitions in Sections 4.1 and 4.2 can be merged into a single definition? They are almost identical.
* Section 4.3 is called "Reduction details", but there no details at all in this section.
* Line 480: T(n,0) is a tower of height n, so it is not elementary (conversely to what is written).



----------------------- REVIEW 2 ---------------------
SUBMISSION: 70
TITLE: Parity games in pushdown systems with pebbles
AUTHORS: Mathieu Hilaire

----------- Overall evaluation -----------
A pushdown system defines a parity game on an infinite graph: the positions are
configurations of the automaton, and moves are given by transitions of the
automaton. A state in a configuration determines which player chooses a move.
This model is quite well studied. 

The novelty of the present paper is to consider pushdown automata with pebbles. 
The main result is that for this extension determining the winner in the
associated game is decidable, but has non-elementary complexity.

The decidability proof is an extension of the method proposed by Cachat for
pushdown games. It also goes through Muchnik's theorem: each Muchnik iteration
handles one pebble. 

This is a competently written paper. The constructions are presented in a
sufficient detail. 

I miss motivations behind this model. In the introduction some related models
are mentioned but I do not find this sufficient. The studied model has a
strange future that pebbles "stay" even when the stack gets emptied, they
remember the "phantom stack".

In conclusion, even though the paper presents a clear result, I am not convinced
that the result is interesting enough to be accepted at the conference.



----------------------- REVIEW 3 ---------------------
SUBMISSION: 70
TITLE: Parity games in pushdown systems with pebbles
AUTHORS: Mathieu Hilaire

----------- Overall evaluation -----------
This paper considers parity games played on pebble pushdown systems, an extension of PDS where a finite number of pebbles/registers are used to store previous stack contents.

The main claims are decidability and a non-elementary lower bound (which contrasts the EXPTIME-completeness of solving parity games on ordinary pushdown graphs).
The decidability argument follows existing techniques, reducing the problem to emptiness of an alternating two-way tree automaton (with parity acceptance and suitably extended with a pebble mechanism); This problem is then shown to remain decidable using machinery from MSO model checking. The non-elementary lower bound is shown by reduction from the satisfiability problem of FO on finite words.


The topic of this paper is in scope for FSTTCS and the results improve our knowledge of games on infinite graphs.
The proposed model is natural and in line with previous "pebble versions" of finite-state tree walking automata [10,12]. The techniques seem to be not new in itself and rather adoptions of previous ones that happen to work here as well.

In my opinion the presentation is extremely technical and at times overly precise at the expense of brevity and readability, and should be significantly improved for final publication. 
For example, the crucial definition of the operational semantics of PPDS on top of page 6,
is obscured by the many "respectively, empty stack" clauses and the important assumption that the current stack content equals that of the pebbles to be lifted is easy to overlook.

Images to convey intuitions would be much appreciated, for example to depict the drop/lift mechanism, and for example 8.

Why would one ever "drop" the same stack to more than one pebble over the course of a run?
Regardless of the fact that this model is used here to define the arena of a parity game,
I'd like to see an example why the model is more expressive than normal PDS, perhaps in terms of recognised languages. Are they more expressive or just more succinct?

259: "a run is ... a tree T_r. The latter tree is like the unfolding of the run." This is cyclic if I read it correctly.
